---
description: StackState Self-hosted
---

# Release Notes StackState 6.0.0 Chart version 1.11.0

## New Features & Enhancements:

* <b>Trace Explorer:</b> Introduced a new Trace Explorer, accessible via the main menu,
providing enhanced visibility into your trace data.
* <b>Microsoft Teams Notifications:</b> Added support for Microsoft Teams notifications,
enabling better communication and alerting within your team.
* <b>OpenTelemetry Integration:</b> Added general support for OpenTelemetry Traces and
Metrics. OpenTelemetry authentication now also supports [Ingestion API Keys](../../use/security/k8s-ingestion-api-keys.md).
* <b>ClickHouse Database Backups:</b> Added support for full and incremental backups to the
ClickHouse database. Backups are disabled by default; follow the documentation to
enable and configure this feature.
* <b>Improved Trace Performance:</b> Enhanced storage and query performance for traces.
Important: This upgrade will remove all existing trace data.
* <b>OpenShift 4.14 Support:</b> The latest agent now supports OpenShift 4.14.
* <b>Receiver API Key Management:</b> The `stackstate.apiKey` is no longer a required
value. You can now supply the receiver API key as a self-managed secret. For more
details, refer to the [documentation](../agent/k8s-custom-secrets-setup.md).
* <b>Custom Labels and Annotations:</b> Resources deployed by the
`stackstate-k8s-agent` Helm chart resources can now be customized with additional labels and
annotations via the `global.extraLabels` and `global.extraAnnotations` Helm
values.
* <b>Right-Hand Side Panel Enhancements:</b> The Right-Hand Side panel now includes:
  * Three mini charts showing highlighted metrics.
  * A mini health timeline for better visibility of system health.
  * Similar mini charts have been added to the topology explorer component
  popover.

## Bug Fixes:

* <b>X-Forwarded-For Logs:</b> Suppressed errors related to `x-forwarded-for` in logs when
using an IP combination.
* <b>Minio Helm Chart:</b> The Minio Helm chart now correctly respects the globally defined
`imageRegistry`.
* <b>Saved Queries (Splunk):</b> Fixed a bug where retrieving the list of saved queries was
incorrectly pulling data from the global namespace.
* <b>MonitorFunctions on Windows:</b> MonitorFunctions created on Windows OS with `\r\n`
are now converted to UNIX style (`\n`). Note: Functions created previously will not be
migrated automatically; they must be manually updated by reopening and saving them.

## Security Updates:
 
* <b>Vulnerabilities Addressed:</b> Fixed several vulnerabilities in the StackState CLI,
including:
  * CVE-2022-27664
  * CVE-2022-41721
  * CVE-2022-41723
  * CVE-2023-39325
  * CVE-2023-3978
  * CVE-2023-44487
  * CVE-2022-32149
  * CVE-2024-24786
  * CVE-2022-25645
  
## Breaking Changes:

* <b>Openshift Installations:</b> For OpenShift installations, the
`elasticsearch.prometheus-elasticsearch-exporter.podSecurityContext`
must now be set to an empty string ("").
* <b>Propagated Health:</b> Dropped support for propagated health. User can now use the
AggregatedHealth monitor to get an aggregated health state on higher level
components.

## Other Updates:

* <b>MetricBindings Management:</b> Added permissions to manage `MetricBindings`,
which are assigned to the `stackstate-k8s-admin` role.
* <b>Topological Relations:</b> Fixed missing indirect relations for paths containing hierarchical
relations.